__PART 1__
Rewatching the lecture to get notes for the assignment.
Dag Wendelin, Fredik Johansson, Richard Johansson, Ashgan?
Several TAs, two on each module

Lecture will give an perspective on AI, talk about of the course and the module.

Turing Machne - 1936 by Alan Turing
Input tape, Output tape and Memory read/write head
The beginning of modern computers
Before the computer was invented the human brain was likened to a telephone
switch
"I belive that at the end of the century the use of wors and general educated
opinion will have altered so much that one will be able to speak of machines
thinking without expecting to be contradicted" - Alan Turing Computer Machinery
and Intelligence (1950)

"Every aspect of learning or any other feature of intelligence can in principle
be so precisely described that a machine can be made to simulate it. An attempt
will be made to find how to make machines use language, form abstraction and
concepts, solve kinds of problems now reserved for humans, and improve
themselves. We think that a significant advance can be made in one or more of
tthese problems if a carefully selected group of scientists work on in together
for a summer." John McCarthy Dartmouth Workshop 1956

  They managed to create chess playing AI, but didn't manage to handle language.
A reson why they failed was since everything was based on human insights, since
it became an limiting factor since we are not that good at numbers.
There would be very diffucult to write rules on how a dog looks like. 

So AI didn't succed, but we instead have temendus success in other areas of
computing. Most stuff we do with computers are pretty basic stuff, mostly
writing and storing data and sending it to other places. 

Simulation was one more advanced form of computing. Where the laws of physics
are codded in to a program to run different tests faster and cheaper.
- A mix between human insight and data. A lot of math.

Signal processing and control systems, also a mix between human insight and data
and a lot of math. 

Advanced computing - Algorithms
Like shortest path

Optimization, finding the optimal solution with respect to certain constraints

The succesfull early version of AI that succeded was mostly rule-based-AI

Advanced computing - Data science
A mixture between AI and statistics

Machine learning-based AI
capture high-dimensional statistical patterns
Approch: High dimensional statistics
Less insight and more data

Alsong as we have pproblem with doing basic things with computers, having
trouble with connecting to the internet and storing data. There is not natural
to focus on AI. 

Data science - investigate to understand and predict
AI - systems that perform "intelligent" tasks

Traditional AI methods
- Problem-solving: search, local search, adversial search, csp
- Knowlage, resoning, planning: proposital logic, first-oreder logic, inference,
  planning/acting knowlage representation
- Uncertain Knowlage and reasoning: probabillity distribution and Bayes, Baysian
  networks, inference, Markov chain, Utility theory, Game theory
- Learning: learning from examples, learning from logical models, learning from
  probabilistic models, reinforcement learning
- Communicating, perceiving, acting: NLP, image recognition, robotics

When we talk about AI today we often include many differen forms of advanced
computing. 

Different application => modeling: AI, advanded and basic methods
The task becomes to decide what methods should be used for what task. Everything
should possible not be solved by AI, overkill. This reciures insight about the
problem. 

__PART 2__


